so behind us this is an old logging road
and now it's grown up with alders and
other shrubbery and we have to clear all
this out of the way and make this
basically a driveway you did the first
one just a cute
[Music]
[Applause]
you
[Music]
oh so I think what we're gonna do today
we're gonna spend 12 hours today
clearing the road Nicole and I take out
all the alders and give it a haircut and
trim it back and see how much road we're
dealing with and then visualize and
measure and see if we have the right
measurements we need for the yurt and
upcoming garden and fruit tree orchard
and see if aesthetically it's still
pleasing to the eye into the spirit to
base up our life on this road and use
this road as a lifeline that then we can
live at as we slowly spiral out and
extend our life to the other parts of
the acreage here
[Music]
hey so what are you doing that's so cool
you're trying to save the moss
[Music]
you made a lot of progress you were
working until like 8 o'clock but now at
least there's enough clear where we can
measure yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
I'm gonna get one more
[Music]
[Applause]
good morning morning let's get to work I
think three-peat is perfect I don't
think we should go any lower okay it's
on camera this is speaking now or
forever
I'm saying it it's perfect I think it's
great
[Applause]
[Music]
they need to be like right here so I
need to back mine up yeah
you need to back that thing up okay so I
say we take the board off and then we
have to bring our blocks closer together
yeah I think so
nice 9/11 into the core is about it by
two
she's perfect one down a lot more to go
just 32
[Applause]
[Music]
so row three to twelve footers for beams
at 106 inches and two beams at 144
inches
[Music]
yes
all right it's noon we got a break for
lunch but we got all the beams cut so
all of these beams you see are gonna be
the supports the solid foundation that
are gonna hold Nicole and I up and this
is what's gonna look like we're going to
eventually cut these stilts right here
these vertical stilts and these beams
will sit on top the stilts so we cut the
beams first because now we can space
apart the pier block which are these
concrete footers the concrete guys we
can space them apart perfectly as per
they should be for a 30 foot diameter
yurt you guys can go to Pacific yurts
comm and go to the sample platform plan
for a 30 footer and pretty much follow
exactly what I'm doing online if you
want to see what I'm doing
[Music]
up a hair
okay it's perfect yeah
[Music]
to make sure that you take a chunk of
this out okay love are there
making some good progress today on the
platform for the yurt we're almost done
with all the stilts that's the hardest
part because all these stilts had to be
level so we can either Corral a bunch of
horses here now or we can put plywood on
top of these guys once we have the
blocking wood this wood in place and
then put our yurt on top of there
[Music]
you
did it
[Music]
bugs
we're here trying to do work it's
hailing on us
look it's bouncing off the beams Oh and
they can't even pick it up look oh my
hat like it's bouncing off your head oh
thanks for the warning
oh my gosh this is your weapon today
thank you girl
we have our eye protection on because
the bugs are out of this world crazy
relentless yeah they like walk to get
into your eyeball and they're getting my
forehead like my whole forehead has
bites right where my hat stops plus then
this is gonna happen first Sohini the
blank tell me when these two no not yet
I mean when these two are love me there
okay now this one
okay
[Music]
you're looking very cute today
thank you there's like the actual
spiritual gangster Thanks
[Applause]
[Music]
can you see the Nets they're like
vampires the apocalypse is now
hashtag zombies I discovered that you
have a crazy skill I never knew about
she is like the fastest nail pounder
I've ever seen in my entire life
look at how much she wants to win this
competition she already has all the
nails in her mouth like frickin Hawkeye
from the Avengers in the comments team
Jake or team Nicole are you ready mm-hmm
wait I get to put mine where yours this
mm-hmm
yeah every time she's one nail me it's
got to be the mouth technique God now
I'm like come on Jake the pressure we're
running out of time
she just floss No
[Music]
[Applause]
we just realized that if we duck
underneath the new floor the bugs the
gnats can't find us but they really
think that the camera lens is an eyeball
right now
[Applause]
[Music]
hey I just want to tell you guys I'm not
vegan anymore because I've sucked down
close to 50 of these gnats down my
throat alright I think you're very
productive day I was very impressed
getting the first stage of the plywood
on top sliding the tongue and grooving
together which is like a male part and a
female part and I just slide together
and he made it really strong and we got
the plywood braced in between the beams
they're really solid 4 inch by 6 inch
beams and we're gonna continue full day
of work finishing all the plywood
tomorrow before the rain hits hardcore
this weekend look at my cameras even
fucking up watch this
[Music]
[Applause]
I'm gonna drop in it
[Music]
let's see plug it in
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Applause]
fire in the rain
[Music]
so just keep on the sunny weather all
day today it's raining worse it's just
like really sunny and then raining and
then sunny and then raining it's like we
can't have our cameras and tools tools
and wood out in the rain so he'd have no
like I didn't cover everything up for
any log back out just makes it very
tedious yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
well when I was in archery not archery
but Randy's drape the Peters industry
well there he goes
I was there awesome man you know I was
mean good change is coming change is
coming hmm and what did we just do today
you just finish the blood and so now the
change is coming it's your time
[Laughter]
many folks don't realize that we brought
the yurt with us and we've had it this
past month covered in tarps so
underneath here is insulation for the
yurt and the lattice wall so Nicola is
up here
christening the platform right now it's
important in yoga sesh how's the
platform go strong cool
[Applause]
[Music]
do it oh yeah how we're gonna get it
over there it's like a header panel so
why don't I lift up one side onto the
wheelbarrow yuria broad backwards and
I'll walk forwards on the other side
[Music]
you're gonna scoop it under get ready to
flex
[Music]
heaviest piece on
okay platform is virginal and ready
ready to receive the yurt yes where's
the front door gonna go the front door
is gonna go over here cuz we can turn it
any way you want yeah so why do you want
over there what's the thought because as
we have said before we are on an old
logging road and so the logging road
continues out this way into our property
and it actually exits out onto the main
road so we'd use that as a driveway so
we're gonna keep clearing all of the
alders and the salmonberries this way
and it just would be perfect and I mean
you can even see the mountains I mean
you guys can't really see yeah they can
look look at how what nicole is talking
about it looks like you can see the
mountains up here we're gonna clear a
lot of that so then we'll really be able
to see in like the sunset like when the
Sun is setting over here the reflection
of the sunset over here like the the
purples and pinks and the blues while he
recovers we're gonna be over here cuz
this continues through and we're gonna
line the property or line the road with
fruit trees and cherry trees so they
blossom during spring they'll be really
pretty
so we're putting it over here I mean
this looks like the 18th tee box at
Augusta National word you gotta hit the
tee shot right between that tight little
tree line fairway and it looks great I
mean this is like calling to our friend
door yeah so but seriously like do you
want it to be pointing that way or
pointing the direction of the shoe once
we stand there then we'll see what is
the exact middle of the rope from where
we're standing we can't determine it
from right here we have to go over there
do it I'm gonna cut it right now all
right tell us all what you decided are
you sure no no to be honest that looks
Center like right there okay I mean to
be honest so I'm gonna stand where
you're standing and you stand back and
look cuz don't orient it to all the all
the bush because the bush is gonna be
gone I know yeah so this is the front
door so the door should open right here
the center of the door feet in the
middle of my crotch yeah thanks
according to the Pacific yurts manual
the door for French doors which we have
needs to be 55 and 5/8 inches so we're
gonna make the center approximately 27
and 3/4
this space here has to be is seriously
like empowering if you worked so hard on
this to actually get the Euro asking us
why you're in I mean it's like a human
right it's very empowering to build your
own yeah I have never built anything
this grandiose before you're also really
like I feel like I got superpowers you
don't get the same feeling with you
overextend yourself on a mortgage where
a bank owns you for 30 years in a house
you don't need that somebody convinced
you to get this is like you and me
owning our life rebuilding our own
selfish things like
are we into your knife technician oh you
better watch out I'm really excited I
got a knife that was epic that's what
she said of all time it smells so good
pies the wood
don't cut the string not yet it's just
untie it in case we need it wow we
survived the parents test this has been
our baby in our egg and we've kept this
nice fertile past eight months and
through some crazy conditions it's not
rotted it's not broken
I can't mean it's great the outside is
the side with the holes in the middle of
the rivets while the inside has no holes
in the rivets
[Music]
[Applause]
well she doesn't realize is that now
I've brought her all the way out into
the wilderness and put her in a cage
what do you think about the size of the
space I brought you all the way out here
into the wilderness and have put you in
a cage okay
the cutest interim I ever saw my little
interment just hold it from flopping
over the only other heavy part is the
top cover but that's just heavy because
it's malleable and flexible nine months
did it break no oh my gorgeous perfect
screen
yeah hey kudos to Pacific Arts for their
amazing seriously amazing packing job
like overall Pacific yours man five
stars like if it wouldn't have been
packed like this we wouldn't have got
wouldn't have gotten it here without
breaking it very nice is there more
stars right now huh Cooper host Amazon
Prime premium uber X 100% tomato ready
that right there is Taurus vs
vegetarians you think it guides our
routes and girls are you like the screen
it's so nice now we can have the door
open all the time and no bugs it's
broken actually art is not just like air
BnB here the first time in a year and
half year and a half you're all
teary-eyed
[Music]
this is really important
the ends of the lattice will have a
metallic plate installed which will
attach to the bolt on the doorframe
[Laughter]
thanks for coming everybody out there
interested in putting up their own yurt
when you get to the door threshold part
you want to make sure this little notch
right here that knot right there that oh
yeah my finger is bleeding by the way is
outside the drip line look at that and
then we screwed those threshold screws
in you just let me do the knotch
outside the drip line right great oh
you're framed here already trying to get
in it's like I'm sorry I'm already
trying to get in I it's like I'm spying
on you through a keyhole
okay let's anchor this thing to the drip
edge by this thing I mean the lettuce
wall and then go to lunch
and the door is like 83 and a half so
it's the same height six o'clock 12
o'clock
let's check every few feet I've never
been so proud of the lighting and
shadows that this lattice is creating I
love it these are the brackets that are
gonna go from the lattice wall to the
external part of the platform good edge
and the frame
[Music]
[Applause]
it is pretty it is in perfect pristine
condition yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
the manuals saying this gap is open this
gap is open and that lays in there's a
slot in that piece this is really crazy
because like if we get the pressure
wrong then when it's up there
beams can just drop so we have to work
together first raft was going in there
with that dot and then we marked the
next one just going right there and with
that docked
[Music]
there
okay lift it up
Stage one I need to get like I'm gonna
lift it up
hold this ladder away and then you pull
this ladder out of here and let's put
this ladder where this slider is just
you have to watch your heads I don't
want it to fall on your head like
David's a manual to wear
Oh God
hey kudos to India for teaching me the
head technique
yeah hold the line just don't get hit
please stay in place is this smart yeah
I feel pretty good right now
it's just American Ninja Warrior yurt
course is this worse than not yes
we'll be late
just watch your head
are you not entertained are you not
entertained are you okay what's the
problem if you have three people are
definitely higher or scaffolding I mean
our scaffolding yeah
that's not by the book the manual says
use hardhats an extreme caution but that
is gonna be a black fish hollow stuff
all right we gotta go get some more
beans I mean to be honest it looks like
the UFOs are gonna come visit us through
that hole
[Music]
okay what's really amazing is that all
the mosquitoes and the bugs are
clustered in like a colony above the
ring like they're worshiping the circle
it's great yeah so it's in the pin is in
now here hold it there and then I just
lift a little bit I was really afraid I
was gonna break the lattice wood so I'm
holding the tension cable and I was
protecting it and then I just kind of
pull it back pushed the tension cable
out hold the board back don't pinch your
finger and it drops into the slot so
we're gonna do this 7580 seven more
times
mm-hmm
[Music]
all right it's the next morning and all
the work Nicole and I did the dark looks
fantastic but the fact that the light
has come out
we've seen some mistakes we made so one
mistake that I don't want you guys to
make if you're doing this year it for
the first time is look at these rafters
looks pretty good right there the
tension cable is sitting right in the
notch right there but look these rafters
are upside down yep sure enough we
checked the manual the reason we know
this is because this morning we went to
the next step and we're supposed to put
a screw in there to trap the tension
cable in that notch and the screws and
the wrong side so we've been remedying
our mistake let me show you a correct
one also made a mistake because I've
built a lot of garden arbors and I
always build the garden Arbor with the
nose on the top and that's not correct
in this case so look at this one over
here this is correct to see how the long
part is down it almost looks like a
shark that's upside down and you can see
how now we have the screw hole in there
so now we have a screw going through the
knotch trapping the tension cable in
that slot so I'll show you how I'm
spending my morning today reversing like
50 of these guys but I'm finding his
gloves help a lot and I don't want to
break the lattice wall like I really
don't want to break the wood so I'm
gonna I'm holding on to the tension
cable and I'm pulling with my left hand
and that gets the board out of there but
I'm keeping pressure going into the ring
because I don't want the pin to drop out
of the ring I'm putting in the correct
position and then it slides much better
in there and then Nicole is walking
around putting in these screws
[Music]
all right screws yes what are you
finding I'm just putting it through the
hole and you just have to make sure that
you don't put it in all the way like all
the way through so it cracks the board
like that nice okay everything sitting
perfect all the roof beams are screwed
in and attached to the tension cable
look at that gap right there above the
door I left that gap there on purpose
because now we have these boards that
are notched differently than the other
ones and these sit on top of the
doorframe so let's go put them in
can you not sit on the cable
the ring
what we're finding is that we're able to
push or pull the doorframe a good inch
or two and that's playing with the level
and the door frame being plumbed so we
got into : the reader and I'm adjusting
forward and back and she's telling me
when it's love
[Music]
[Applause]
102 yeah the fabric window begins at 102
inches from the doorframe okay I got a
drill in these screws as many contact
points as possible and then cut just the
window fing opening I thought I did
[Music]
[Applause]
we're gonna put this through the dome
through the hole yeah and then let it
just fall down I'm just
I'll let it sit right there good perfect
great job
[Music]
[Laughter]
it looks like nothing it looks like a
piece of just rubber but it's very heavy
it's very thick and dense very dense and
it's flexible so it kind of kind of
moves and melt in your arms you know so
we have this part on the small ladder
resting like we did yesterday with the
insulation mm-hmm so that's resting then
you take this part and just flop it over
again I'm just kind of fixing the
insulation the roof insulation and the
liner here to the beam I'm just staple
gunning it to the beam so that doesn't
shift around on us mm-hmm
before we put the top cover on this
definitely looks safe what you're
standing on I know I'm sorry to
everybody out there who's a safety
person this is how it's gonna be all
right
I don't think this is gonna happen I
can't I cannot safely get up on top of
this ladder okay wasn't an epic fail
the successful part is me carrying the
top cover on my head again this is not
by the book this is just what I'm doing
I don't feel comfortable getting up on
the ladder past the second to last step
with that heavy of an object on my head
and I don't think the camera is doing
justice to how heavy the top cover is
it's very heavy so Nicole and I are
making a makeshift scaffolding we took
all the pallets we have I took like
eight of them and we're doing an eight
pallet high base put the ladder on top
of there so it's nice and routed and I
don't have to go so high up on the
ladder so I can put the top cover on my
head walk it up the ladder to a
comfortable step throw it over the top
and get done safely
[Music]
pushy no not stop
painfully slowly inching towards one fun
for you gonna push up
[Music]
when did you start in those well she
stuck
did you start to lose
[Music]
okay stop right there
there you go ah
[Music]
alright guys we got the top cover in
place which was challenging it heavy it
was so hard
did you get brain no because there's a
door opening here that we didn't know
was cut for the door opening even though
it does say in the manual we didn't know
how to find it when we unraveled it and
it's just so heavy I couldn't be
concerned with the door opening so we
were about six feet off this cut I don't
know if you guys can see it needed to
come in front of the door opening so
we're going back to my old wrestling
days we used to move wrestling mats with
air underneath the mat so we're gonna do
the same thing securing the top cover
yes with the twist lock shanks it's hard
to see you through the screen door oh
yeah yeah top cover has a cutout that's
perfectly sized for the French doors and
there's grommets in here and allows me
to put these little twists shake
hardware pieces in these grommets and
fasten it to the door with a nice tight
and might I say classy and looking see
there's seven pieces of insulation seven
separate pieces and they all correspond
to a certain area of the year so we
start next to the door with section one
then we go two three four five six seven
and piece it all together
[Music]
okay Nicole has the side cover very
exciting step here and those plastic
guys are going to clip on to the top
cover
we chose forest green door sticker in
place so we can get some good tension
with this wall liner as we stretch it
around the perimeter
[Music]
check out how this place is changing
coming like a real home today we feel
more fresh and they call and I and
worked too hard last two days and we
were burned at the end of the day
yesterday so we put up the side wall
cover for us green and we have to pull
it tight today we've had some really
favorable weather for five days in a row
lots of Sun and pretty much no wind and
no rain it's really fortunate gonna get
the side cover going nice and tight
let's go okay got a tight all the way
around and this end is just a piece of
fabric just hang it out here and once we
screw it into the drip edge which is the
outer perimeter of the platform you guys
saw Nicole and I build once we bolt it
in it'll pull this much tighter and
better and there's grommets around the
entire bottom no I don't know if you
guys can see it in this shot but the
entire bottom of the liner has these
grommets so we can bolt right into it
the way the manual says to do is to take
the side cover right here and wrap it
around this door sticker and then slide
it in and there's a gap in the French
door frame with wing nuts on that side
and the wing nuts just tighten it in
place so I'm gonna pull this as tight as
I possibly can then start working the
grommets oh that's actually gonna be
good
[Music]
okay I got this one and do the third one
tight okay okay go for the top I mean
it's as tight as I can get it and now
you have to just screw the grommets in
all right all right inside the yurt what
are we doing now the window this window
which is way over here so we have to
move this over so when we put the
insulation Adi told us to leave about 10
inches of overlap so if this happens we
can just move it over so this is kind of
confusing for folks watching what's
actually happening here we have an
opening cut out of the insulation the
white parts the insulation pre-made into
into it Hey sidenote
whose sweater is that oh my god he must
be a really generous man you look good
our house
[Music]
you lose yourself
close through
[Music]
get taste freedom less you feel your
long
[Music]
the time has
Oh like we don't want to dump it this up
hold it really secure we have to go into
it I don't like at the perfect angle
okay no that's not enough hey we have
life thanks to our amazing YouTube
what's that there we go wait wait my
finger doesn't look like it's too far in
or too far out looks like a Canadian
goose to the Canadian goose Wow
talent babe
fresh air privacy shelving space
dinnertime
[Music]
[Applause]
okay you and I have been waiting for a
long time you put the dome on the top of
the yurt yeah thanks don't was like the
last official piece like the candles on
top of the birthday cake yeah let's
count like a birthday cake vanishing
topper so my question to everybody out
there watching is for that looking at
the manual
how would you take the clear dome and
safely get it to the top of the yurt I'm
interested in anybody's opinion of what
we should do down below in the comments
okay here's what Pacific Year it says to
do dome skylight lay a blanket or
cardboard on the top cover on the roof
to protect the dome when sliding it into
position working from scaffolding or a
stepladder in the center of the year
toss a strong cord or a rope to a helper
who is outside the perimeter of the yurt
and have them tie it to the two eyebolts
inside of the dome and have the person
at the perimeter set the dome on the
blanket or cardboard so you can pull the
dome up the roof of the yurt to the
center ring then remove the cord what
should we do and that's how it should be
done okay
got it yep
whose hurry whose heavy
[Music]
let me know where that's when it's hot
hey tot okay so can you push up past the
threshold of the corner
yeah yeah perfect
okay I got enough
I got it I don't have it anymore I got
it three light one
actually nervous if the Rope is going to
take the week it looks like your clothes
[Music]
we are closed in like a submarine
this one is tough cuz the configuration
is interesting it pulls up and down like
this this spring is up and down but in
this spring year it's so tight that I
can't get it down that these ones are
easy because these ones just have a look
at guitar and this is the bracket I'm
gonna put on next here for the don't
opener but this one directly across from
the don't open I just can't get it on
there I'm gonna do this okay I did a
screwdriver to get it down on the eye
bolt and now I'm gonna try to just snap
it on there I got it with a few types of
the hammer yes
okay it's so clear it doesn't even look
like there's a dome on top here it's
like it's like a Tesla Model X but that
IMAX style of view and right twist this
guy check it out this is the coolest
thing ever
we're gonna have a big long stick that
Pacific Yards provided us that from the
ground we can just insert the stick into
this little slot here and open it get
some hot air to go out there and fresh
air to come in and close it up
swanky babe
[Applause]
[Music]
trap
the world of German bride
[Music]
I don't know leader
the
free
[Music]
might say
you